---
title: My Father's Two Stories | So What If You Win In the Beginning
date: 2016-01-31 22:15:35
categories:
- Life
tags:
- Career
- English
---

Among all the stories my father told me about him, there are two which has great beginnings for his benefits, but somehow turned to be bad things. Those two stories were often recalled by me, and I shared with many friends. Today, let's talk about them.

Dad started high school in Julu No.4 Middle School, and he was like the King student there. He was the class monitor, and sports leader. Which is to say, he was the student in charge inside the building, and also the leader for sports outside the building. He gave speeches under the National Flag, and was also the star in school newspaper and radio station. Which is to say, he was not only the leader in student politics, but also a big one in media. Of course, his GPA was the highest. He was popular among classmates and favored by teachers. Everything was so good.
During the summer before final year, Dad was helping in our farm and met a cousin, who was the then Director of Culture Department in Julu County. Cousin asked him, "Which school are you in? How is it?" Dad said, "No.4. It's good." Cousin suggested, "No.4 is not so good. No.1 Middle School is the best and it's in downtown. You should come to No.1. And I know the Director of Education Department of our county and the Chancellor of No.1 Middle School really well. Let me arrange you for the transfer."
In this way, under Dad's cousin's arrangements, Dad transferred to No.1 Middle School for final year. But the new environment took time to get familiar, and the students and teachers didn't know my Dad. He felt very upset. And final year was really hard, Dad's performance didn't recover to a good status. Then in the National College Entrance Examination of that year, Dad failed. But many of Dad's classmates in No.4 got admitted to colleges.
The transfer and its effect was unforeseeable to Dad's mind at that time. But he still appreciates Cousin's arrangement, and his life in final year in downtown was actually very good according to his recall. Btw, by my calculation, my Mom should be in No.1 Middle School's first grade at that time, but they didn't know each other and just missed. Life is really magic.

Another story is the job assignment after college graduation. After he graduated from North China Oidfield School (now Tianjin Petroleum Vocational and Technical College), based on the then policy, Dad and his classmates would be assigned a job, start from management track, and work for North China Petroleum Administration Bureau under the Ministry of Petroleum under the State Council. Because one of Dad's uncles was a manager there, he assigned Dad to be an office clerk in the headquarter of No.3 Oil Production Plant. For two of my father's friends, one went to the remote base of the Plant, the other went to a more front-line place which was far away.
This is actually a very good career starting point. Such a job is half politics and half business. And it later became Petro China, a large state-owned energy monopoly and once the most profitable company in Asia. It is somehow comparable to Google, the internet technology giant 30 years later which I am working for. Apparently, life was more enjoyable in headquarter office compared with the remote base technician, and it was closer the power. By common sense, the single girls in headquarter didn't need to suffer sunburn and windburn and they enjoyed the benefits of downtown. So they should be of more fashion. Of course, I mean the fashion of 1980s. My Dad once rode a bus for an hour to visit the classmate in remote base, and found he was living in a tent. The classmate in tent said that the third guy in more remote front-line didn't even have a tent.
But, the turning point is coming. We later find that for national companies and government, it weights front-line working experiences and experiences in grassroot places a lot for promotions. So closing to retirement, the ranks of my father and two classmates, comparing with initial job assignments, are in reversed order. Of course, Dad's rough career is partly due to the corruption. As low as one of his managers and one second-line manager, as high as Jiang Jiemin and Zhou Yongkang were put into jail for corruption, which I won't talk much in this blog.

When I was reading Lao Zi, I thought it was too mysterious and exaggerating. It says that: *Danger is the next neighbour to security. Misfortune may be a blessing in disguise.* Now it does reflect in the two stories.
As we are limited by time and space, people's minds usually cannot foresee what the good things at that time can be negative at a bigger magnitude. The then leading runners, because of their mind stereotype or the burden caused by advantages, will fall behind in the long run. This is also why, the top student in school and the one who gets the high starting salary and job, will most likely not be the most successful alumnus. (Of course, here by success, I mean it by the conventional standards.)

[Click Here for Chinese Version](2016/01/31/father-two-stories/)